SP-2973: Updates for Q2 2026 (#63)
lsst/rtn-011: timeline.tex

Table~\ref{tab:ops-timeline} presents the Operations timeline, including nominal date ranges for the various elements of the Early Science Program. 
For completed milestones, the actual delivery dates are listed. 

> Milestone dates are expressed as minimum–maximum ranges to reflect the associated uncertainty or "not before" dates 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Milestone dates are expressed as minimum–maximum ranges to reflect the associated uncertainty. 
```

Reviewer: We should not abandon the principle of communicating uncertainty via our best estimate date range. "Not before" or "undefined" implies that that milestone may not happen with significant probability. I don't think this is the case in any of our milestones (SVY, NPC, PPDB). @rblum5 and I are working on the SVY one, and I commented above on the NPC and PPDB late dates.

Author: I don't agree, it simply means that it won't happen before the specified date, and that we'll give an update at the date specified. Anything else is just guessing. The product will be delivered, it is (and all are ) are SRD requirements.

Reviewer: 1) Because our timeline is intrinsically uncertain (a fact we explained to the community during pre-operations), we present our milestone dates as date ranges that summarize probability distributions - since the reader is going to interpret an uncertain date in that way anyway. (Actually they interpret dates that are certain using PDFs as well - it's just that those PDFs are delta functions.) If we were to say "not  before X" the reader's response will be to _assign their own PDF, internally_.  They might then bring in some additional information, based on what they have seen in other surveys, or what they have heard else where in Rubin or their Science Collaboration, but they will inevitably conclude some broad, uniform-ish PDF (with a hard cutoff at the "not before" date at the early side) since they don't have much more information to go on. Then, they'll inspect the late time tail of this mental PDF, and draw a pessimistic conclusion of their own, which will be dominated by their other information, not what we give them. And so we'll get people saying "maybe not even this year!" and things like that. It is therefore better for us to provide a well-informed approximate PDF than just one side of one. 2) Re: "just guessing": we _never_ ask Rubin staff to "just guess." The request is always for an informed estimate. We start by identifying the people who are best informed about the situation on the ground, and then we ask them for their best estimate. At this point we might use the term "best guess", but they know what that means: their "best guess" is the _informed estimate_ we need. Assigning probability distributions is not easy, but we must do it in order to serve our science community well. Those science community members need to make bets as they plan while coping with an uncertain timeline, so they need to know the odds involved.

Reviewer 2: Asking for an informed estimate is not conistent with the other side of this, which is to ask people to explain why their informed estimate was incorrect ... there seems to be a history of people giving good faith estimates that are then treated as failed milestones. So I am afraid there is a fundamental inconsistency here.

> Milestone dates are expressed as minimum–maximum ranges to reflect the associated uncertainty or "not before" dates 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Milestone dates are expressed as minimum–maximum ranges to reflect the associated uncertainty. If a milestone is given as having a date "not before X," it should be understood to have a late date that is simply still being estimated. 
```

Author: But you made us remove all "not before" dates?

Author: I am removing all mention ot "not before" dates now as we there are none remaining in the document

> The early date typically corresponds to the early  forecast, including any additional operational uncertainty, while the late date approximately reflects the current  late date plus any additional operational uncertainty. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The early date typically corresponds to the current forecast, including any additional operational uncertainty, while the late date includes reasonable, albeit approximate, contingency in the schedule. 
```
